stretching is an effective way to keep
your muscles healthy it makes them
stronger and increases your flexibility
first of all let's take a test that will
show how flexible your shoulder joints
thigh muscles and rotator cuffs are to
find out you'll need to do a couple of
special exercises shoulder joints lie
down on a bench so that your shoulders
hang down slightly from the sides bend
your legs at the knees and press your
lower back down to the bench remember
that you shouldn't arch your back raise
your straight arms up in the air and
start to move them slowly behind your
head do not bend your arms at the elbows
normal result you've done okay if both
of your palms went lower than the
surface of the bench good result you are
pretty flexible if both of your elbows
reach lower than the bench great result
Wow
your palms touch the floor are you a
yogi rotator cuffs sit on a chair with
your side facing a mirror bring your
arms to the sides and bend them in the
elbow so that they create a 90 degree
angle without changing the angle move
your palms back as far as they can go
after that reposition your arms so that
the tips of your fingers are directed at
the floor try to move your palms back as
far as you can
normal result at the highest point your
palms are level with your ears at the
lowest point your palms are next to the
central vertical line of your body good
result your palms have passed the
central vertical line of your body both
at the highest and lowest point great
result you managed to move your palms
far behind your back both at the highest
and lowest points have you been
practicing thigh muscles stand on your
knees and put your arms in front of you
so that both of your elbows and palms
are on the floor try to spread your
knees as far as you can your shins
should be at a 90 degree angle to your
thighs
normal results your result isn't bad if
there's a 100 degree to 110 degree angle
between your thighs good result you're
doing pretty well if the angle between
your thighs is 130 degrees to 150
degrees great result your thighs are
almost lying on the floor and the angle
between them is no less than 180 degrees
you're about to do the center splits
your flexibility is enviable even if
your results weren't that amazing there
are some ways to improve your stretching
abilities there are effective exercises
and recommendations that will help you
become more flexible one standing
hamstring stretch stand with your knees
slightly bent and your arms at your
sides your feet should be hip-width
apart
exhale and bend forward lower your head
toward the floor all the while you
should keep your shoulders and neck
relaxed hug the backs of your legs with
your arms and stay in this position for
one to two minutes after you finish bend
your knees and roll up this exercise
will help you stretch your calves
hamstrings glutes neck and back to
tricep stretch if you need to make your
shoulders back triceps and neck more
flexible try the following exercise you
can kneel sit on the floor or stand
straight with your feet hip-width apart
whichever feels more comfortable extend
your arms overhead bend your left elbow
and try to touch your back at the top in
the middle with your left hand grasp
below your left elbow with your right
hand start to pull your left elbow
gently toward your head and down after
doing this for about 30 seconds switch
sides repeat the exercise for the right
arm 3 butterfly stretch an effective
exercise that will stretch your glutes
hips thighs and back is the butterfly
stretch
sit down on the floor your knees should
be bent and the soles of your feet
should be pressed together while holding
your feet or ankles with your hands
steadily lower your body toward your
feet at the same time you should be
pressing your knees down to the floor if
you can't bend over just press your
knees down stay in this position for 30
seconds to 2 minutes
for lunging hip flexor stretch kneel on
your left knee and position your right
foot in front of you your right leg
should be bent at the knee lean forward
and move your left hip toward the floor
by squeezing your butt you'll get a
better stretch stay in this position for
30 seconds to two minutes switch sides
and repeat this exercise the lunging hip
flexor stretch will help you stretch
your gluts hips and quads 5 need a chest
stretch this exercise will help you
stretch your hamstrings hips and lower
back lie down on the floor on your back
and extend your legs pull your right
knee toward your chest at the same time
your left leg should be straight your
lower back should be pressed to the
floor stay in this position for 30
seconds to 2 minutes switch sides and
repeat this exercise for your left leg 6
Sphinx pose according to Shanna Tyler a
new york-based
yoga instructor this exercise allows you
to gently stretch your lower back on top
of that when you do this exercise you
make your abs work lie down on your
stomach your legs should be stretched
out behind you your elbows should be
positioned right under your shoulders
and your forearms should be on the floor
slowly lift your chest off the floor
your shoulders should be relaxed as you
press your thighs and hips into the
floor move up to feel a pleasant stretch
in the lower back region if you start to
feel any discomfort stop immediately 7
frog stretch this type of stretch
targets tight spots in the groin in hip
areas in addition it helps to get rid of
lower back pain
get down on all fours your knees should
be wider than shoulder-width apart your
toes should be turned out and the inner
edges of your feet should lie flat on
the floor move your hips back toward
your heels be careful not to over strain
your muscles if you can try to get a
deeper stretch by moving from your arms
to your forearms all this position for
30 seconds to 2 minutes these exercises
that develop your flexibility are great
but your attitude to your stretching
workouts makes a difference as well
before you start training try to
persuade your body that nothing
extraordinary is happening if your
muscles have to strain to keep you
balanced while you're opening that
hamstring you won't get good results
this is why it's better to go with a
comfortable position make sure you can
spend enough time in this position only
after that should you start to stretch
your body when doing your stretching
exercises concentrate on your breathing
rather than your muscles this is a great
way to get rid of tension as soon as
your body relaxes your breathing will
start to move you and this will help
your progress don't try too hard and
avoid extreme positions there must be a
healthy balance between strength and
flexibility unfortunately people with
hyper flexibility such as performance
artists or dancers often have a reduced
athletic capacity plus most of them
suffer from chronic pains and undergo
surgeries as they grow older find your
perfect point and don't try to over
strain your body try to move rather than
being static when you get into a
position don't try to go deeper and
deeper into the bend
instead relax and start moving allow
your body to bend at the knees sway a
bit from side to side change your stance
and look for positions in which you feel
more stable by experimenting you won't
stress out your body are you happy with
the results of the test tell us in the
comments below if you're going to
improve your flexibility remember to hit
the like button share this video with
your friends and subscribe to this
channel to join us
the bright side of life